In this demo,
I will show you how StatefulSets work.
For this I'll use Cassandra.
I am here in my git repository.
It has an inquiry, statefulsets.
I have a cluster running, using cops.
With 4 nodes.
3 nodes where I can get something on.
I'm going to deploy Cassandra,
and Cassandra is a database.
You don't need to know much about it to deploy it.
It's a database that needs static host names,
so they need to find each other those nodes,
otherwise it cannot work.
And to be able to find each other,
you need those static host names.
But let me show you what's in the ML file.
We have kind: stateful sets.
We give it the name: cassandra.
We want 3 nodes.
Every node in Cassandra is the same.
So it uses all the same docker image.
The image that we're going to use coming from Google.
It has a google example that includes Cassandra.
We're going to use version 13.
These are the ports are defined.
So they're intranode ports, jmx for statistics,
and cql for the client.
We're going to give them limits,
so we need 1 gigabyte of memory free
to be able to run this box on nodes.
We need 3 gigabytes in total to run this.
That's why I added another node.
It's 4 T2 small nodes, not T2 micro.
So I have a total of 2 gigabytes per node
that I can scale on.
Secure context, we add the capability IPC_LOCK.
So it's just going to give a little bit more privileges
so that Cassandra can use IPC_LOCK.
If we going to stop the pod, the Cassandra,
then it will use the command nodetool drain
to make sure that the data from that node
goes first to the other two nodes.
Then we have the environment,
and this is just what Cassandra needs.
It needs for instance the heap size,
it's going to use half a gigabyte of memory.
And then this is the most important,
the Cassandra seeds.
So where does every node need to go to for it's seed
because they need to connect.
We can have 10 nodes, we can have 100 nodes,
but those, all those nodes need to contact one node.
That will be called the seat node,
and that seat node knows about the whole network.
In this case, we're going to use Cassandra as 0,
which is the first deployment, the first port.
Over at Cassandra Cluster.
And this we can do because we're using static host names.
So we can use this static host name,
Cassandra-0.cassandra, which is a service name,
.default.sv.cluster.local.
And this host name always stays like this.
So this, when we use this host name,
always reaches the first node in our cluster.
And that is what the difference makes
between a stateful set and a deployment.
We give the name datacenter rack,
and then we also pause the POD IP address,
so that the image knows about the IP address
that it's using.
There's a readiness Probe,
to see when the cassandra node is ready.
This script is provided with the image.
There is a initial delay of 15 seconds,
and a timeout of 5 seconds.
Going to mount the volume, so this is cassandra-data.
Mount Path is /cassandra-data,
so that's where we're going to find out data.
And then we have the volume claim template,
called cassandra-data.
Read Write once,
and the storage class is standard.
And this is the storage class that we're going to provide.
SO it's GP2 and eu-west-1a.
8 gigabytes of storage per node.
And we create a service.
So this will be the cassandra service,
name it cassandra, doesn't have a cluster IP.
We'll have a port, 9042.
And the selector is app: cassandra.
So this will be the port we're going to use
to connect to our cassandra cluster to use cql.
Let's kubectl create this cassandra.
And then we can immediately check our Pods.
So we have now we start with cassandra-0,
so this one is pending
and we also see
the volume so we can have volume here,
cassandra-data-cassandra-0.
We also have a claim.
So if you do watch kubectl get pod.
Then we can keep an eye on the launching of the pod.
So first we'll have the first node, cassandra-0.
This is the host name that we can't use in the config,
that we will have cassandra-1.
That cassandra-1 will contact cassandra-0
to tell this cassandra-0 that it is alive,
it is there, and then it will start creating a cluster.
Now our first cassandra node is running.
It's not ready yet, but it's initializing.
First one is ready, so now the second one is creating,
and the second one will contact the first one.
And now the third one is creating,
so we have two ones ready, and our third one is creating.
So let's check again.
Now all our pods are running for a couple of minutes now.
And we should be able to do kubectl exec of cassandra-0.
And we should be able to execute nodetool status.
Which will give us the status.
Don't worry about this error,
it's just a temporary DNS error
because my cluster is only just a couple of minutes old,
so DNS is not yet propagated to our name service yet.
Node tool status gives us UN, status up, state normal,
of our three nodes.
So those are three pods, and they're all working.
They all have a part of D, data in cassandra.
So we have the data and it's replicated.
They communicate with each other, and they're all working.
Let me just show you how it now works with the DNS lookup.
So if you do bash,
then we are now logged in to cassandra-0,
and if you use ping cassandra-0.cassandra,
we can ping the first one, the second one,
and the third one.
And in our three node cluster, these are static DNS names,
so we will always be able to reach these nodes.
Let's try to kill a pod.
Kubectl delete pod cassandra-2.
Cassandra-2 deleted,
and this one will spin up a new pod.
It will actually spin up the same pod.
The same cassandra-2 will be spun up.
Kubectl get pods.
So you see, there's already a new one spinning up right now.
Kubectl get pv, and you see,
no new storage has been created,
it's still the same storage that it uses.
So it's still the same storage that was spin up earlier.
And now it is running again with the same data.
So if you do nodetool,
we have again our three nodes in the cluster
and they're all healthy.
So it can recover, it can contact the nodes again.
You have static host names,
so you can use a stateful set if you have this database
like cassandra, like classic search,
that you need to run on kubernetes
that need static host names and static volumes.